
MAGIC WORDS.




[Illustration: Day & Son, lith^{rs}. to the Queen.]




  MAGIC WORDS;

  A Tale for Christmas Time.

  BY
  EMILIE MACERONI.

  “Oh, many a shaft at random sent,
  Finds mark the archer little meant;
  And many a word at random spoken
  May soothe or wound a heart that’s broken.”

                                     _Scott._

  WITH FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS BY E. H. WEHNERT.

  [Illustration]

  LONDON:
  CUNDALL & ADDEY, 21 OLD BOND STREET.
  M.DCCC.LI.




  LONDON:
  Printed by G. BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.




  TO
  MRS. AUSTIN
  This Little Volume
  IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.




ILLUSTRATIONS.


  LITTLE MARY AND HER FRIEND TROY             11

  MARION TEACHING LATIN                       25

  EDITH WATCHING THE DAWN                     39

  MARION AND HER FATHER (_Frontispiece_)      53

        _From Drawings by_ E. H. WEHNERT.




MAGIC WORDS.




CHAPTER I.


It was the evening of Christmas Day. The hymn of “Peace upon earth,
good-will towards men,” had been chanted by thousands of voices
throughout the land, from the grand cathedral-choir to the simple
singers of the village church. Charity had extended her munificent
hand to the poor and needy, lighting up smiles on many a care-worn
face. Hospitality welcomed the good, the beautiful, and the great to
the lordly mansions of the rich. Love and Peace sat enthroned in many
a happy home. Poverty, shivering at the present, was consoled by the
glowing figure of Hope, pointing with radiant eyes to the future.
Memory and Sorrow lingered around the grave of many a departed one;
but of all mourners they were the saddest who were estranged from
those they still loved. Yes, amid the pain, the sorrow, the suffering
of life, _their_ hearts were the heaviest; for (to use the oft-quoted
words of the poet) “to be wroth with those we love, doth work like
madness in the brain;” and this hallowed season speaks strongest to our
kindest feelings, and to the tenderness of our better nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

A train had stopped at a rough little village station about thirty
miles from town, and a few country people, on their way home, leaned
over the bridge above to admire the enormous red eyes of the monster
as it moved slowly on through a deep cutting crowned with dark firs.
They lingered yet a moment longer, to mark whom it had borne from the
great city to their quiet village. A beautiful girl of fifteen, glowing
with health and exercise, accompanied by two fine, rough-looking dogs,
rushed down to meet her playfellows and friends. She was breathless
with joy, and with her race over the heath; but her merry laugh and
warm greeting sounded pleasantly enough as the noise of the train died
away in the distance.

A lady, wrapped in a warm plaid, who had been anxiously waiting for
some time, took the arm of her husband, with a few low words of
delighted welcome, and they walked briskly away. The dogs of the
younger party barked with glee--were patted and caressed. One look at
the dear heath and at the hills beyond, with a thrill of delight at
the thoughts of a long ramble over them on the morrow, and the ponies
were mounted, the dogs whistled to, and away flew the happy trio to
the home-welcome, to the dear old hall, to all the joy of a Christmas
meeting.

Only two other passengers appeared, winding up the pathway--a gentleman
of tall and commanding aspect, and a buxom, brisk-footed countrywoman,
wrapped in her scarlet cloak, who passed him with a low curtsey and
cheerful good night. She was thinking of the bright fireside, of the
dear little faces round it anxiously awaiting her return, and of the
enormous amount of joy contained in that wicker basket. An event of
great marvel and wonderment is a poor woman’s visit to her friends in
town, and she is ever in a tearful state of ecstasy and excitement on
reaching home again; all of which becomes a matter of grave family
history in the lowly household, and is recounted on many an occasion to
eager and attentive hearers.

She quickly disappeared up a winding path cut through the furze and
heather, evidently leading to a low-roofed cottage on the skirts of a
fir-wood. Lights twinkled in the casement, and joyful voices were soon
heard approaching to meet and welcome her. The road was now perfectly
solitary. A few deep-red clouds still hung over the west, and here and
there a large bright star shone silently through the sharp, pure air.
Dogs bayed in the distance; the sound came very pleasantly over the
heather through the rough old pines.

The gentleman walked briskly on, and lights began to appear in the
valley beneath. He stopped as the merry notes of a flageolet struck
his ear, proceeding from a cottage by the road-side. The blaze of a
wood fire within illumined the little rustic porch and neat garden.
Bright branches of glistening holly shone in the tiny casement. The
tune ceased, and was followed by a light-hearted laugh and the sound of
young voices.

“How happy they seem!” said he. “It is such scenes as these which make
the country so delightful, so cheering to sense and spirit!”

And yet he sighed heavily as he walked on; and passing through an
avenue of fir and larch leading to one of the prettiest and most
picturesque cottages in the world, he paused when he reached the
garden-gate. It seemed, too, a dear, quiet, sweet-smelling home. Lights
shone from more than one of the windows; and more than one bright young
face might be seen, by the gleam of its golden hair, flitting about
in the uncertain light. A sweet young voice singing as sweet a tune
ceased, as all young voices do, suddenly, when the bell rang out its
summons, and a brisk, rosy little maid appeared, lantern and key in
hand, to admit the traveller, and guide him through the long shadow of
the firs to the house. A favourite dog bounded to meet and gambol round
him with unrepressed joy. The children clustered into the porch to say,
timidly, “How do you do?” and hold out their little hands to shake;
while their mother, advancing with a kindly greeting, expressed her
pleasure at his return. Even the maid looked pleased and happy to see
him. But yet it was not his home.

After a few minutes’ conversation, the traveller was seated in his own
room, his dog, his sole companion, looking at him with glistening eyes,
as his master fondly stroked his magnificent head. He was a man of
twenty-eight or thirty years of age, with a sad and thoughtful cast of
countenance, yet one that all who looked upon it _must_ instantly love
and respect; it was at once so engaging and so noble. He looked round
his little room at his sketches and his gun with evident pleasure,
placed some books and papers which he had brought on a little table
before him, and drawing his arm-chair close to the blazing pine-logs,
sat watching the golden cones as they crumbled away, one by one, at
the height of their brilliancy. But every reverie must have its end;
and his was brought to a close by the appearance of coffee, borne by
a bright-eyed country maid, smirking and smiling with pleasure, as
country servants are wont to do at every fresh arrival.

It would seem that the reverie by the bright fireside was not an idle
one, but that among many revolving thoughts, some, at least, were
considered worthy of preservation; for the coffee was soon despatched,
the table covered with books and papers, and the stranger intently
occupied with his pen.

So absorbed did he become with it, that after one or two long, wistful
glances, the fine hound lay down reproachfully on his comfortable rug,
as if despairing of any further notice that night.

The wind moaned heavily in the pine-branches round the cottage.
Presently the writer paused and listened to the sound, so like the
rushing of distant waters. He walked slowly to the window, and gazed
long and earnestly into the night. It was moonlight, yet stormy;
and large, glittering stars, looked down through the dark branches,
when the hurrying white clouds had drifted over them. The distant
clock of the old village church, slowly striking the hour, sounded
mournfully over the river; and the lonely man at that little window
thought of years that were gone, of the bright firesides in many a
happy home that night, and turned and put away his papers with a sigh.
He thought how differently he used to work years ago, when, with all
the ardour of his nature and the energy of hope, and yet with intense
fear and anxiety, he strove to render himself worthy of one idolized,
one long-sighed-for object! He thought, too, of the bitterness, the
agony of disappointment; and how long years of his young life would
have been thrown away, had he not struggled hard to save himself from
becoming a useless, melancholy being, given up to the indulgence of
selfish regrets. He had succeeded,--there was some comfort in that
reflection. He knew of what he was capable, and dared not throw away
the power he had acquired, because it no longer availed the idol Self.
So he still worked on. He had become distinguished for his literary
labours, and for his contributions to the improvement and well-being
of his fellow-creatures; but to fame and to the praises of the great
he was now equally indifferent. His happiest hours were passed in his
favourite village, where he was greatly beloved, although he dared not
wholly give himself up to the quiet of a country life.

He had had the old Gothic church restored, with all possible observance
of its antique ornaments and its fine clustering ivy; and took a kind
of Sir Roger de Coverley delight in seeing the country people, bettered
and improved in every way, flocking to it on Sundays to hear his good
tutor’s sermons, to which he used to listen with so much reverence in
his boyish days. He had learned to believe that the word “happiness”
signifies, the being reconciled to bear, still having courage to
do, and gratitude to enjoy that which remains. Thus, he was usually
cheerful in his various occupations; _but this was Christmas time_:
a time when the lonely heart feels most desolate--a time when many a
tender word spoken by the absent is remembered with sorrow--when all
anger is forgotten in the feeling of peace and love which steals over
the heart. And his head lay buried in his hands, his whole soul given
up to an overwhelming agony of regret.

[Illustration: Day & Son, lith^{rs}. to the Queen.]

“This day last year,” he muttered, “who could have believed the change?
Oh, Edith!” he continued, taking up a miniature that lay beside him,
“who could have thought then that we should now be as strangers to
each other? Who could have thought that that bright face, those many
noble qualities, could have wrought so much misery?” Again he looked
at the lovely countenance, smiling on him a thousand of the tenderest
remembrances, and a still gentler expression, a kindlier spirit, came
over him. “Those eyes,” he said, “how softly they have looked on me!
Perhaps even now a thought----but what folly! In the pride of
beauty and prosperity, what is there to remind her of me?”

A low tap at the door interrupted his meditations. For an instant he
could not say, “Come in!” his heart was so very full; but quickly
recovering himself, he turned with a smile to welcome a little village
child, who timidly advanced to place both her tiny hands in his.

She looked into his face with eyes beaming with love and gratitude; but
the joyful, sparkling expression soon faded away, for she saw that he
was sadder than usual; and with the quick sympathy and natural grace
of childhood she sat down quietly on the rug, and taking the stately
head of the hound on her lap, pensively stroked his long, shaggy coat.
Presently she ventured to break the silence in her gentle way--“I am so
glad you are come back, sir; I have missed you so!”

Her companion’s countenance brightened, and he said with
animation--“Have you, though, my poor little Mary? I thought you had
forgotten me, being so long away.” And he stroked her bright brown hair.

“You should not have thought that,” said the child, earnestly; “I
always remember you, for you taught me all I know. I was longing to
come yesterday, and all day to-day,” she continued, “to hear if you
had arrived. To-day has been so happy that I could not stay away any
longer, and so here I am,” she added, with her merry laugh, which
sounded pleasantly in that usually silent room. These simple words,
that mute caress, had restored the confidence of the two friends. Mary
was herself again, full of fun and prattle. Seated on the extreme edge
of a huge Gothic chair, she balanced her little feet on the back of
her friend Troy, who, far from resenting the liberty, fixed his dark
eyes lovingly on her sweet young face, while she talked on, full of
the details of her simple life. How she had gathered pine-cones for
several evenings, because she knew he loved their cheerful blaze and
sweet smell. How poor Turpin, who was always in trouble, had hunted
a rabbit, and been caught in a trap; of her mad race over the hills
for help; how she nursed the poor, poor foot afterwards; and how
the faithful patient cried because he could not accompany her that
night; the relation of all which very much affected his kind little
mistress. Presently she produced with great glee her “Christmas
present,”--several little bundles of bark, peeled with great care, from
the silver birch-trees, cut into slips, and tied with red worsted. “I
burnt a little bit the other day,” said she, “and the smell was so nice
I thought you would like it, so I got some to light your taper with--do
try it;” and the little creature soon held a blazing piece in her hand.

“It is delicious, Mary; and how good of you to collect it for me!”

“I was very happy getting it,” said the child; “but I wish you had not
thought I had forgotten you. I could not forget you!” she continued,
after a pause; “you, who have been so good to me, and taught me so
much! I never looked at a book before you came. Oh, I was sadly wild!
Mother said I made more noise than the boys!” And she laughed heartily.

The tutor laughed too, and told the often repeated story, which he knew
she loved to hear, of how, in his walks, he had frequently listened to
her little voice singing in a cornfield, while “minding” birds; how he
had been surprised at her sudden disappearance on his nearer approach,
and on making a voyage of discovery, had found her ensconced in the
body of a broken-down post-chaise, that, singularly enough, lay between
two old fir-trees at the foot of the wood! He did not describe to her
how, in imagination, he had pictured the different and exciting scenes
in which the once gay equipage might have borne its part; but went on
to say how he had peeped in unobserved, and had seen her perched on
one of the dilapidated seats, with a little piece of board on her lap,
intently occupied in carving a morsel of meat into divers small pieces,
which she divided, with impartial care, among three ragged starlings
perched on the opposite beam, who watched her with glistening eyes!
How merrily she talked to them, and how perfectly they seemed to love
and understand each other! He reminded her of her surprise on being
discovered, and her frank invitation to the intruder to “look in” on
the wonders of the unique aviary, with its valuable illustrations of
the “History of Red Riding Hood,” its bright jay’s feathers, and other
childish treasures!

Heartily the little Mary laughed; and so the Christmas evening passed
on.

“I must go now,” she said; “I promised to read mother the pretty story
you gave me, ‘Simple Susan,’ and they will all sit up for it! Good bye!
You will promise not to be so sad when I am gone as you were when I
came in. You have been thinking of that pretty lady again!” she said,
with a face of anxious love--pointing to the miniature--“that makes you
so, I know! Why don’t you go to her?”

“Because she does not love me, Mary,” was the faltering reply; “and you
know we are not happy with those who do not love us.”

“Are you _sure_ of that?” said the child, earnestly. “People often
hide their kindest thoughts--and perhaps she hides hers from you; you
must look for them, as I look for violets, in their thick leaves. Oh,
I was so unhappy once!” she continued, tears starting into her eyes at
the remembrance: “I quarrelled with my brother, and we did not speak
all day--both were so proud: but do you know” (and the sweet little
face sparkled) “that when I put my arms round his neck and kissed him,
and said, ‘Good night, Harry!’ he kissed me, and cried too; and said
how unhappy he had been _all_ the time. I had thought he would _never_,
_never_ love me again! Oh! if my brother had died, as baby did, before
we kissed each other that night!”

Poor little Mary paused, her heart quite full at the bare idea of such
a thing; but she turned again, with admiring eyes, to the miniature.
“She looks very kind and good, and _so_ beautiful! Did you speak
gently, and ask her to love you again: or were you proud?”

The child did not notice the agitation of her companion, and little did
she imagine that, long after her head lay softly on her happy pillow,
the simple eloquence of those Magic Words was working powerfully in his
heart!




CHAPTER II.


Over many a mile of hard, frosty road, by snow-clad fields and hills
and woods, by many an ice-bound stream, must we lead the imagination
of our reader on the evening of the same Christmas Day, and peep into
another home, far from that we have just quitted.

Undrawing the warm crimson curtains of a charming little room--half
drawing-room, half library--the light of a lamp falls brightly on the
figure of a lady reading to her husband. It is manuscript, and he puts
the pages by for her as she goes on.

She often pauses, to look up with a delighted smile at his praises, and
he thinks that she never looked so beautiful before! She is very like
Correggio’s Magdalen, and has the same lovely countenance and waving
hair.

Presently she came to the last page, and the praise was repeated.

“I had no idea I could translate so well,” said she, “and am glad you
like it, for that will give me spirits to go on: I may, in time, become
quite useful to you.”

“When are you not everything to me?” was the reply. “But, Marion, you
must not work so hard; I cannot afford to see you look one bit less
bright. Besides, it is a kind of reproach to me your working so much;
indeed you must not!”

“Nonsense!” said Marion, laughing; “you can’t think how happy I am
when helping you, for I am sure you are often very weary! Poor Edward!
what anxiety I have caused you! Now for a volley of protestations!”
said she, laughing again. “But to be serious: I was thinking, to-day,
how much we have to be thankful for; and that with all its anxieties
how happy this year has been--how _infinitely_ happier, working and
striving on together, than droning through an insipid life of ease,
as some do. I don’t know what would become of me if you were ever
to be rich,” she continued; “to be sure, one might always find some
useful employment, some good to be done; but no one knows, except those
who have experienced it, the delight of overcoming difficulties, and
earning home comforts by one’s own exertions.”

“True, dear Marion! I never knew, until I knew you, how little is
necessary for happiness!”

“I knew what life was--I had an anxious one at home, even from a
little child,” said Marion, “and adversity taught me to know what is
best worth knowing; what flowers to gather in this great garden, that
many neglect, or do not perceive. How sweet are the uses of adversity!
I love to linger on those words; and if ever I venture to write an
essay,” said she, smiling, “it shall be on that subject. What does it
not teach us?--the practice of almost every virtue.”

“Nay, not quite so far, enthusiast,” said her husband, smiling;
“remember the effect of almost constant sun on flowers; how splendid
they become--how fully their beauty is developed!”

“Yes; but they cannot bear the storm that _may_, that _must_ come.
The stout old thistle, reared in cold and sleet, is much better
off--much more useful, and protects many a little plant under its
vigorous leaves. Now, only think what adversity really does for us.
To begin with _my_ early life:--my father and mother treated me as
their friend in all their troubles; I was accustomed to watch their
anxious care-worn faces, to try to cheer them, and to rejoice when
they brightened: this bound us together in the closest affection; I
believe no child, no parents, were ever so dear to each other. No
little home was ever so loved as mine; and I was quite broken-hearted
when away from all its cares, even for a short time, although in the
midst of what people called enjoyment. These were very different
feelings from those of children nursed in the lap of affluence, who
are frequently selfish, and often but little attached to those around
them. I knew what it was to be deprived of many comforts, which made
me grateful for those I had, and taught me to feel for the sufferings
of others infinitely worse off than myself. Naturally impetuous, I
grew up patient; for, as you know, my father was a man of eccentric
genius, who failed in all his efforts to place us in the brilliant
position he dreamed of. I felt and shared in his disappointments,
until disappointment itself became powerless! Sympathy with those I
loved roused me to exertion--taught me the value of time--the dignity
of usefulness! But, above all, the frowns of the world, the sweet
uses of adversity, made me feel the dear necessity of clinging to and
loving one another, and of living in that ‘peace which passeth all
understanding!’”

Marion paused, and looked with inexpressible tenderness on her husband.

“I do not believe we should have loved each other half so well if we
had not borne so much anxiety together,” she presently continued,
“although it would be a dangerous experiment for those to try, who
never knew what care was! _We_ very coolly stepped into its troubled
waters. What straits we have been in! There is really some amusement,
though, in looking back to a hundred comical little difficulties,
mingled with graver trials; in peeping into the crowded picture-gallery
of one’s own life--grave and gay! Do you remember when we were so
_very_ poor, and your father’s friends, the Saviles, condescended to
drive over to luncheon with us?”

“Oh, yes,” said Edward, laughing; “when poor old Jock behaved so
inconsiderately!”

“Inconsiderately, indeed,” said Marion, laughing too. “I shall never
forget seeing him swallow the delicacies which I had prepared with so
much care, in the coolest manner possible, looking me hard in the face
all the time. I was in an agony to see the ham sandwiches disappear
one after another down his huge throat (knowing there were no more in
the house, too), while the capricious fine lady who took a fancy to
feed him, drawled out, ‘the d-e-a-r d-o-g! _how_ he li-kes them!’ I
should think he did, indeed, with his appetite! I do believe, though,
Mr. Edward, that, like all men, you rather enjoyed the scene than
otherwise; for you never offered to put the cruel old dog out of the
room.”

“How could I tear him from the flattering attentions of his Patroness?
But let me see; how did you manage it, Marion? I dare say very
ingeniously and gracefully. I remember how proud I felt of you that
day.”

“Oh, I appeared to enter into the amusement and drollery of his
enormous appetite, but suggested, in the most affectionate manner
possible, that he should _bow_ his thanks to the fair lady before
tasting another morsel! Poor Jock, who had not the slightest
acquaintance with any feat or accomplishment of the kind, was all
amazement at my gestures and commands, and only stared hard for more;
whereupon he was gently ‘_fie-fied_,’ and put out of the room for his
obstinacy and ingratitude!”

[Illustration: Day & Son, lith^{rs}. to the Queen.]

They both laughed heartily at the remembrance of Jock’s delinquency and
its punishment; and Marion being in a very merry humour, recounted with
much mirth many other similar incidents, which they _could_ laugh
at now. “We never deceived each other but once,” said she; “the time
when you were so ill, you know, from over-work, and I used to steal
slily into the village to give your Latin lessons to those stupid boys
you were ‘preparing!’ I often wonder how I took courage to ask their
mother to let me take your place: yet I am glad I did, for I don’t know
what we should have done without the money; and I studied the lessons
so well myself, that I did no injustice to your pupils. But then
the _dénouement_! I shall never forget your walking into that dingy
library, pale as death, and your extreme surprise on finding me seated
in the great chair, conjugating a tremendous Latin verb, while the
poor little mamma looked on with amazement at my proficiency! _I_ was
startled too, fully believing you to be quietly resting on the sofa,
_while I took my walk_!”

“We both looked very guilty for an instant.”

“Yes, we did indeed; and I thought I never should cease laughing on
our way home, especially as you were half inclined to be angry! But
my mirth soon vanished when I saw how faint you were, and you rested
your head on my shoulder as we sat on the stile. A terrible fear came
over me,” continued Marion, shuddering, and drawing closer to her
husband--“I never felt pain like that before!”

Both were silent for some time; and Edward tenderly stroked the
beautiful head bent down beside him. “Nay, look up, Marion,” he said;
“I am quite well now, love, and you must not be so sad.”

“I am not sad,” said Marion, raising her large eyes, and smiling
gently. “I was thinking how grateful I am that you are better, and
how happy this Christmas would be if you were but reconciled to your
father.”

“Every house has its spectre, Marion, and this haunts ours. I believe
one always feels any kind of estrangement from those near to us most
powerfully on days like these. They seem to have a strange mysterious
power of calling up old recollections and early affections!”

“Only those which ought never to be broken come at this holy time,”
said Marion; “the gentle thoughts it brings with it seem to me like
the soft warning of angel voices,--to be at peace ere it is too late!
I wish you would read them so, and write to your mother again: she
is of a gentler nature; but they must--yes, they both must, long to
see you again!--Oh, if I could but persuade you!” she continued, with
emotion: “we know not what a day may bring forth--even to the youngest
and strongest among us; and Mrs. Hope says they both seem to ‘age’ very
much. How deeply you would grieve through life if----”

“Oh, Marion, say no more!” exclaimed her husband in an agitated voice,
“it is that thought which so constantly haunts me. For myself, I could
forget all; but their unkindness to you--to you, of whom they ought to
have been so proud; I cannot forget that!”

“Do not think of it,” said Marion, in a soothing tone; “we must not
quarrel with people because they are unable to see things in the same
light as ourselves. They knew very little of me, and thought, I dare
say, that I prevented your being much happier with a wealthier bride:
besides, they may love me yet when you have made your peace, as I know
you will,” said she, smiling. “Remember, it is to your parents that you
bend, and I never can feel happy while you are as a stranger to them.
I suppose it would be my turn next,” said she, with her musical laugh,
“if I were to venture to oppose your wishes, or to say a few angry
words.”

“Marion!” said her husband reproachfully.

“Well, what security have I,” was the playful retort, “over one who
could be contented under such circumstances? You owe to them infinitely
more than you do to me--they loved you for years and years before I
did. Oh, Edward! your own heart must tell you more than I could ever
speak.”

“We will not discuss the subject any further, dear Marion,” said he,
and his voice faltered. “Sing to me, will you? The evening never seems
perfect without a song from you.”

Marion sang the following lines in a rich and lovely voice:--


THE SPIRIT’S WHISPERINGS.

  I roved one morn in a sunlit grove,
  Where the mavis was singing his song of love,
  Where the wild bee flew on her wing of light,
  Flitting o’er moss-cup and blossom bright!
  And Nature was blooming so freshly and fair,
  Nought fading or dying was resting there;
  Yet the light breeze sang, as it wafted by,
  “Alas that the Lily and Rose should die!”

         *       *       *       *       *

  I sat by the side of a maiden bright,
  Radiant with Beauty, and Hope’s soft light;
  She sang a lay of our own loved isle,
  And my heart beat proudly and high the while.
  Fondly I gazed on that lofty brow--
  “What can be lovelier--brighter now?”
  Yet Echo replied to her lute’s soft lay,
  “The sweetest and fairest must fade away!”

         *       *       *       *       *

  I wandered forth, ’neath the moon’s pale ray,
  Where the dead in their last long slumbers lay;
  Softly and coldly her pure beams shone
  On the mouldering urn and the old grey stone;
  And I sadly sigh’d, “Must the young and brave,
  The loved and the honour’d, all share the grave?”
  And a voice replied, in a hollow sigh,
  “The bravest and fairest, all--all must die!”

         *       *       *       *       *

  I knew it was as the spirit said,--
  That all we love on this earth must fade;
  That gently they wither, and slowly decay,
  Or are snatch’d in a moment--away, away!
  And I said, in deep sorrow, “Alas that strife
  Should breathe on this short--this uncertain life!
  And, alas for those who, when Life hath fled,
  Have Peace to ask of the silent Dead!”

Marion’s beautiful voice trembled with emotion, and her eyes were
filled with tears as she approached her husband. He leaned his head
thoughtfully on his hand.

Those Magic Words were thrilling in his heart.




CHAPTER III.


With the exception of the young and thoughtless, who only look
forward to a season of festivity and enjoyment, and of the callous
and indifferent, who seldom think of such matters at all, the varied
feelings which hail the approach of Christmas may be compared to those
occasioned by the contemplation of advancing age--of age so different
in its aspects, whether we behold our fellow-mortals sinking down into
the vale of years alone, neglected and unloved; alienated from kindred
and friends, and still retaining the unholy animosities of earlier
years; unsubdued by religion, unsupported by the contemplation of a
useful and virtuous life; or, on the contrary, surrounded by loved and
loving hearts, looking back with gratitude and pleasure to the past,
and with hope and resignation to the future, in peace, and love, and
charity with all! Many a family in embarrassed circumstances, many a
poor widow with a “limited income,” looks on the increased expenses of
this season of the year, on its bills and various claims, with the same
feelings which anticipate the infirmities of declining years and sharp
attacks of rheumatism and gout. Many look forward to increased domestic
comfort, and brighter firesides. Many a mother smiles with delight on
her children, all assembled round her once more. Many a father rejoices
in their joyous laughter, or in the affection and reverence of maturer
age. Many an old friend is welcomed to the social board. But, alas!
there are many, too, who look back with a dreary regret to the years
that are gone, and think, how different Christmas Day seems now to what
it was!

Such melancholy thoughts were revolving in the mind of a man of
dignified and venerable aspect, pacing gloomily up and down the
splendid library of a fine old mansion. It was almost dark, and the
glare of the fire played over the rich volumes, and on the antique
carving of the furniture. He looked with a sigh at the hearth, once
crowded with happy faces. One only remained, and ah! how changed from
the blooming figure of earlier days, which rose before him! How feebly
that once beautiful head lay on the rich velvet cushion of her chair!
How much suffering and sorrow might be traced on that furrowed brow! He
felt that her reverie was as sad as his own; and truly too, for she was
thinking of many a fair child that had gone down to the tomb in all the
promise of early youth!--of the pride and joy of seeing them assembled
at Christmas, well and happy!--of the joyous holiday-makings and merry
meetings!--of the tearful partings, and the agony of those final ones,
when the thin, small hand, pressed in its tiny grasp the last life
greeting!

Still she could think of the departed with the softened and resigned
feelings which religion and time never fail to produce. But that which
fell most heavily on her heart and darkened her declining years, was,
that the last and only surviving one--the boy whom she had loved
best--whom she had watched over with such intense fear and anxiety--was
still a stranger from his father’s home. Month after month passed,
and still both, in their pride, hung back from any attempt at a
reconciliation. She felt that many more might not elapse before she
would be far beyond the reach of mediation, and with a mother’s and
a wife’s love she longed to see them united again ere she departed.
Presently she walked to the window, and laid her thin white hand on the
arm of her husband.

“I see you still love to watch the rooks going to rest in the old
elm-trees.”

“Yes,” said Sir John, hastily; “it is amusing to watch their odd
flights, and to imagine you can distinguish the croak of a particular
bird.” He would not say that it was Edward’s favourite pastime when a
boy, but his companion knew well that he _thought_ of the time when
both used to stand there together. “But who is this coming up the
avenue?” he said at length, as if willing to shake off the chain of
thought. “Mrs. Hope, I fancy, by her black dress. I suppose she is
come to tell us all about the dinner, as she promised.”

No door ever opened on a better, or kinder, or more zealous village
schoolmistress, than did this stately one on the spare, timid little
body who now advanced. No one ever looked more placidly happy, and no
one more pleased and grateful, when she was kindly placed in the most
comfortable of chairs by Sir John, and welcomed with a cordial smile by
his lady.

“I came up to tell you, sir, that everything was done as you desired.
The children were _so_ happy, it quite did one’s heart good to see
them. They all came in the morning with evergreens and holly, and we
made some beautiful wreaths to set off the room. Their new dresses
look very nice, and they are truly thankful to you for your kindness.
The coals and blankets, and other things, are all sent home too, and
many say they shall thank Sir John for a happy Christmas; which they
wish in return, with all their hearts, I am sure,” continued the good
little woman, with emotion; “for, thank God, _very_ few among them are
ungrateful.”

Sir John’s benevolent countenance brightened with pleasure as he
listened to the kind schoolmistress’s further recital of the village
festivities, to which he had contributed so largely; and his wife
marvelled how the heart of so good a man could be so unrelenting as she
knew it was.

Perhaps similar thoughts were passing in the mind of Mrs. Hope; for
after she had told all she ostensibly had to tell, and felt that it was
time for her to depart, she still lingered, and yet hesitated to speak.

“Is there anything you wish to say to us, Mrs. Hope?” said the lady,
kindly; “pray do not be afraid to mention anything in which we can be
of service to you. Is your son----”

“I thank your ladyship, I was not thinking of him then, but of some
one very different. I thought you might like to know, and yet was
not sure--but Mr. Edward and his lady came over to the school-house
to-day,” said she, as if from a desperate resolution, “and my heart
was quite full to see them come and go away again like strangers--just
at Christmas time, too!” Poor little Mrs. Hope trembled, for she saw
that Sir John’s brow darkened, and he drew back in his chair in an
agitated manner; but an encouraging look from the lady re-assured her.
“It was very pleasant to see him again,” she continued, “in the little
parlour where he often used to sit years ago, and give the prizes out
to the children, and speak encouragingly to them. I thought he had
forgotten the old place, and all he was so good to; but he told me he
had been longing to see it, and never could feel so happy anywhere
else.”

“Poor Edward!” said the lady, with emotion. “How does he look?”

“Very pale and delicate, ma’am; but just the same as ever--just the
same noble look,” said Mrs. Hope, fast gathering courage, “although not
quite so joyful like as it used to be. He made particular inquiries as
to how his father and mother looked, and seemed terribly cast down
when I told him how poorly you had both been.”

“Did he, indeed!” exclaimed Sir. John, starting from his seat, and
pacing up and down; “why did you not let me know he was with you?”

“I feared you did not wish to know it,” was the reply. “But oh, Sir
John! in my humble way I did think it strange that, in an erring world
like this, your heart should be turned from two such children!”

Tears were running fast down the face of the good little
schoolmistress. She hurried away; but her Magic Words were not spoken
in vain.

[Illustration: Day & Son, lith^{rs}. to the Queen.]




CHAPTER IV.


Beautifully dawned the last morning of the old year. How lovely are
some few winter sunrisings! A cold, grey sky, and dim, glimmering
light, scarcely reveals surrounding objects. Presently a delicate blush
appears, gently stealing over the east. It deepens to a ruddy glow; and
then bright, golden clouds, tinged with many a varied hue, overspread
the sky, lighting up in the strongest relief every leafless tree, even
to the most fibre-like branches.

Everything is very still. Edith sits silently at the window of her
dressing-room, watching that lovely dawn. Presently a few starlings
appear on the frosty slopes, with their quick, impatient gestures and
rapid movements, seeking a breakfast. A pair of beautiful blackbirds
droop their jetty wings, and seem numbed with cold. A robin, cheerful
even in adversity, trills a few grateful notes on a shrub near the
window, and Edith thinks that no new-year’s serenade could be half as
touching as that low, sweet song. She thinks, too, what a lesson it
teaches; for her melancholy eye had been straying mournfully over the
broad lands stretching far and wide before her, and--“’tis an old tale,
and often told,”--she had almost envied the humblest cottager in those
her lordly possessions. “Farewell, old year!” she exclaimed; “none
other will ever dawn upon me as you did. May the new bear happiness and
joy to many! Oh, Marion! you little thought how desolate I am, when you
prophesied that there was yet much in store for me.”

Marion’s picturesque cottage could be plainly seen in the distance,
shut in by the blue range of hills above, and sheltered with sweeping
larches. The morning sun now shone brightly upon it, and Edith pictured
to herself the beaming, happy countenance of her friend.

“May God bless you, Marion!” she continued with emotion; “for to the
example of your gentle goodness I owe all that is now left me,--the
knowledge of that usefulness, that patient love and forbearance, which
makes you so dear to others, so happy in yourself, and without which
all that the world calls beauty and talent is hollow and heartless
indeed! You taught me the value of true affection--the folly and
littleness of the false pride I rejoiced in; and yet so sweetly, that
I was only humbled to myself--not to you. Would that it had been but a
few short months before! Oh, Percy! how willingly would I now confess
myself in the wrong! But now I am forgotten! In your benevolent plans,
in your honourable successes, there is no thought of me; or I am only
remembered as a wilful, imperious woman, whom you once foolishly loved.
I shall never see you again--mine the sorrow, mine the fault! But I am
earning the right to self-esteem; I am doing all that I believe you
would approve of, did you care for me now.”

Her heart was very full as she descended to the breakfast-room. No
one was there; but on the table lay a simple nosegay. “From Marion,”
was written on a slip of paper. Edith mentally thanked her friend for
the love which she knew was expressed in the fragrant gift; but tears
sprang into her eyes as she looked on it; for a few lovely roses,
the little blue periwinkle, with its shining green leaves and “sweet
remembrances,” and a few early primroses and violets, were arranged
almost exactly as she had received them from a still more beloved hand
the year before. She started as her mother entered the room, and turned
hastily to conceal her emotion; but touched by the look of anxious
love which she caught fixed on herself, exclaimed, while she suffered
the large tears to fall down her face, “Oh, my mother, I will not be
proud to _you_--Heaven knows there would be little merit in that! I was
thinking”--and her beautiful head lay on her mother’s gentle bosom--“of
the happiness which I have thrown away--of one who has forgotten me.”

“Ah, my dear child!” said her mother, as she tenderly pressed her hand
on the throbbing brow, “in the doubtfulness of our nature we often
accuse those of forgetfulness whose hearts may be breaking for our
sake.”

Edith looked up, a sudden expression of joy beaming over her
countenance. As she bent again over the flowers, the sweetest gleam of
hope stole over her, and she felt the magic influence of those words.

Happy are they who in their own interests, joys, and sorrows, forget
not the welfare of others! Edith looked forward with pleasure to the
events of the day; for in the morning the school which she had built
was to be opened, with an appropriate address from the good rector;
and in the evening, young and old, rich and poor, were to be assembled
in her splendid home. She had gaily declared to the gentry her wish to
receive, as lady of the manor, “all good comers,” that New-Year’s Eve;
and to sup in the old hall of her ancestors, after the manner of feudal
times, with the peasantry of her estate “below the salt.” They, of
course, looked forward to the event with unmixed pleasure and delight.
Not so all those of gentler birth; for she had lived but little among
them until of late, and was understood still less. Many thought it a
capricious whim of the spoiled beauty, and many wondered what strange
thing she would do next. “It was not that she cared more than the rest
of them that the poor should enjoy themselves, but that she loved to
do as no one else did. What a pity her uncle’s fine estate was left in
such hands!”

So charitably reasoned some of the invited guests; but, happily, there
were others who knew Edith better, and welcomed with delight her kind
and benevolent plan for a happy new-year’s eve to them all.

The important evening at last arrived. The village children could not
have existed much longer. Wide were the park-gates flung open, and
never had the old avenue rung with the sound of so many merry voices
before. Many a little belle startled a sleeping bird by stopping under
his resting-place to admire, by the light of the lantern she carried,
her bran new shoes and pretty frock, wondering if any of the great
ladies would look half as nice, and feel half as happy as she did. Some
timid little creatures clung to their mothers’ skirts, and looked with
mingled feelings of awe and admiration on the stately mansion, blazing
with light in the midst of the dark cedars, half afraid of entering
it until re-assured by the promise of seeing the kind lady whom they
all loved. But when they arrived there, and were welcomed by that
sweet lady herself, who shook hands with all, and wished them a happy
new-year; and when they saw the fine old hall with its bright armour,
and many magnificent rooms all beautifully lighted up and decorated,
and were shown the pictures and other wonderful things, their delight
knew no bounds. But, perhaps, that which charmed them most was a deep
recess at the lower end of the hall, completely filled with rare and
luxuriant plants, in the midst of which stood a beautiful figure of
Peace, joining the hands of Anger and Contention, who were regarding
with a mingled expression of surprise and admiration the heavenly
beauty which they had not perceived when occupied with their unholy
strife.

The children whispered softly here; for the light was very dim, but a
lovely glow irradiated the beaming countenance of Peace, and here and
there flowers glistened in the dark leaves around them.

And now tea and cake, such as they had never tasted before, awaited
them in a pretty room, gay with laurel and holly, where our friend Mrs.
Hope presided, half beside herself with joy, yet preserving the most
perfect order and decorum. Then the amusements of the evening began,
which comprised the merriest and oddest of all styles of dancing to the
music of the village band, the wonders of a magic lantern, and many
a childish game beside; but above all, the crowning delight was the
new-year’s gift to each of a pretty little volume, with the name of
each written in it by Edith’s own hand.

The hours flew too swiftly by--so thought these delighted little
people, as ten o’clock was announced, and Edith wished them all good
night as kindly as she had welcomed them; but in few words, for
carriages were arriving, and she had to receive her guests: they
thanked her in their simple way for the pleasure which she had given
them, and the homely sincerity of their gratitude lighted her sweet
face with happy smiles.

The spacious picture-gallery, which had been converted into a ball-room
for the occasion, was gay with many a shining wreath. The old family
portraits seemed to look down with pleasure, and to beam a welcome on
all assembled there; so thought several of the wandering villagers,
grouped here and there amid the more brilliant throng, watching the
mazes of the dance with interest and amazement, and listening with
equal surprise to the magnificent band, to the music of which many a
fairy foot was flying. Most, however, thought it very inferior to the
performance of their own village musicians, and wondered how people
could dance to such spiritless tunes on a new-year’s eve like this.

Edith had anticipated their predilection, their shyness, and their love
of country-dances and hornpipes; so they were soon marshalled by their
gentle chamberlain, Mrs. Hope, into another room, where they could
enjoy all these to their hearts’ content, and yet feel themselves
privileged to look in on the grandees whenever they pleased. Perhaps
this room, with its unrestrained mirth and merry laughter, was happier
than the more splendid one; for though many there were thoroughly
enjoying the beauty and gaiety of the scene, still there were
heart-burnings. In that large assemblage several met, who, though once
friends, had not spoken for years, and who felt startled and uneasy at
being brought into such close proximity. But scarcely a shadow could be
cast where the beautiful hostess moved and spoke--

  “Thought in each glance, and mind in every smile.”

There was so much frankness in every kind and earnest word she said,
joined to the charm of her gentle and courtly manners, that the
coldest, the most obtuse, the most reserved, felt moved and interested
beyond themselves, and more cordially inclined to all the world beside.

And Marion was there, whose flowers were the only ornament on Edith’s
snowy dress; but she, usually so gay, was thoughtful almost to
sadness, and looked anxiously into her husband’s face as they stood for
a few moments apart--“I believed that of late years my father never
mixed in such scenes as these,” said he. “Edith could not have thought
he would come when she invited us.”

“I knew how it was to be,” said Marion; “there are many here to-night
whom she hopes to bring together again; rich and poor. See, she is
looking towards us now, while speaking to him! Oh, Edward, go up to
them at once, I entreat you!” exclaimed she earnestly.

“Not before so many people,” said her husband with emotion. “Suppose he
were to refuse my hand?”

Marion sighed: but her hopeful nature whispered that the New-Year’s Eve
was not yet ended. And now a clock of silvery tone chimed and struck
the hour of midnight. The guests were conducted to supper: unseen
harps, and sweet voices, gave a slow farewell to the old year, as they
were seating themselves at the upper end of the hall, and then burst
forth into a joyful welcome to the new, as the villagers entered
and took their places at the lower range of tables; this again died
away, and a sweet strain arose, of the softest prayer, for peace and
happiness to all! Marion looked round with emotion.

It was a lovely scene, that huge banquet-hall, with its gay wreaths of
holly and flowers. The bright assemblage of guests; the happy faces of
the villagers below; the beautiful hostess, seated in an antique chair
at the upper end, with the banners of her ancient race, trophies of
ages long gone by, waving behind her; the lovely figure of Peace below,
almost shrouded in the dark leaves, and forming a striking contrast to
those warlike emblems: all these afforded a sight which, once beheld,
would not be easily forgotten.

After each guest had paid sufficient homage to the choice viands before
them, Edith took up a cup of curious workmanship; her face was radiant
with kindness and love as she looked on those around her.

“This cup has been possessed, for many a century, by my ancestors,”
she said; “preserved for ages as a venerated relic: doubtless many a
toast has been pledged in it--many a friendly welcome expressed; but I
believe no more cordial and sincere one than that with which I greet
you all this night. I would fain express the usual wish of a new-year
of all imaginable happiness and prosperity, but as such have never
visited this earth, we know it would be vain; and I therefore wish you
the greatest of all blessings--that which cheers and supports us in
the sorrows of life, and heightens beyond measure its pleasures and
enjoyments,--love and harmony in your hearts and homes! There may be
some among us estranged from friends and kindred, grieving over the
fault, (for few, let us hope, in a Christian land, can live unmoved in
enmity one with another,) and yet hanging back, in mistaken pride or
want of moral courage, from the few conciliatory words which would, in
most cases, suffice for a perfect reconciliation. The old year is now
passing away--may it bear with it all anger, all animosity! May those
few healing words be spoken,--and Peace, and Love, and Charity be with
us all!”

Edith’s voice trembled with emotion, but she did not perceive the
agitation of many of her guests, for her eyes were fixed, as if in a
dream, on the lower end of the hall. There was a movement of surprise
among those seated there: she made her way, she knew not how, through
them all. Yes, it was Percy!--One look, expressing a thousand emotions,
and their hands were clasped in each other! For an instant her lovely
head was bowed before him, while a few large, heavy tears, fell on the
flowers at her feet! But she soon mastered her emotion, and, with a
face radiant with joy, led him through the crowd of sympathising faces
to her mother’s side. In the short silence which ensued, the bells of
the village church were plainly heard ringing-in the new-born year!
When had they ever sounded so sweetly before?

And now a joyous strain again burst forth, and all returned to the
ball-room. Again the young, the beautiful, the gay, joined in the
dance; and never feet flew more lightly than theirs. But there
were those who felt a deeper joy; the serene, the heavenly one of
Reconciliation!

And Percy and Edith once more stood side by side,--united, happy! And
Marion told her wondering friend how Percy (who was an old college
friend of her husband’s) had come to see them that morning, and in
their quiet home had confessed that he was drawn to them by the desire
of obtaining news of her, round whom his deep true love still lingered
with so much regret. She had tried to persuade him to accompany them
that night, but still he doubted--still feared. Yet he now confessed to
Edith how, when they were gone, he had longed to see her face again,
how he had concealed himself in the crowd, and how he had been moved,
by what she had just said, to rush forward from the recess where he
stood unobserved, that he might be the first to own the gentle Magic of
those words!

And many others had felt them too! Marion was leaning on _her father’s_
arm--her eyes cast down and tearful in their joyfulness, as he spoke
to her in a low tone of the invalid whom she must see on the morrow.

And all hearts were touched and softened, and rich and poor felt drawn
closer together! And they thought of the voice that had said,--“Love
one another as I have loved you,”--and of the divine lessons of
peacefulness and long-suffering which some had forgotten! And many
blessed to the end of their days the Magic Words spoken by the
Peacemaker[A] on that New-year’s Night.




MAGIC WORDS.


  Magic words! magic words!
    From holy impulse they are born,
  The seeming chance of circumstance,
    God’s utterance to hearts forlorn;
  Where’er they fall reject them not,
    Nor think their mission is in vain;
  ’Twixt loving hearts, whom coldness parts,
    Let not the dreary silence reign.
      Magic words! what are they?
      Things the truest soul will say!

  Magic words! magic words!
    Ah! dear as to the dying flow’r,
  The starry dews that balm infuse,
    And whisper of the fallen show’r!
  Sweet as the bubbling desert spring
    To one who wanders o’er the sands,
  Are those chance words, that sow like birds
    The flowering seeds of happier lands!
      Magic words! what are they?
      Things the simplest tongue may say!

  Magic words! magic words!
    O let them live on ev’ry lip,
  A source of bliss, of holiest kiss,
    And bond of fairest fellowship.
  And evermore at this blest time,
    Tho’ winter’s snows o’erspread the scene,
  One magic call, to bind us all,
    Shall be old Christmas’ evergreen!
      Magic words! are not they
      Offerings meet for Christmas Day?


London:--Printed by G. BARCLAY, Castle St. Leicester Sq.




FOOTNOTE:

  [A] Edith, in the Anglo-Saxon language, signifies Peacemaker.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Superscripted characters are preceded by a carat character: lith^{rs}.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

